README.md, before:

# Credit-risk-classification

# Module 12 Report Template

## Overview of the Analysis

In this section, describe the analysis you completed for the machine learning models used in this Challenge. This might include:

* Explain the purpose of the analysis.
* Explain what financial information the data was on, and what you needed to predict.
* Provide basic information about the variables you were trying to predict (e.g., `value_counts`).
* Describe the stages of the machine learning process you went through as part of this analysis.
* Briefly touch on any methods you used (e.g., `LogisticRegression`, or any resampling method).
Credit Risk Analysis Report

Explain the purpose of this analysis:
The purpose of this analysis is to create and evaluate the accuracy of a data model that predicts the credity worthiness of potential borrowers from peer-to-peer lending services
Using a bulleted list, describe the accuracy score, the precision score, and recall score of the machine learning model.
Balanced Accuracy Score: 95.20% --> this means that when taking into account the sensitivity (recall and/or true positive rate) and specificity (true negative rate) of the model, the balanced prediction accuracy was 95.2%
Precision Score: 92% --> This means 92% of predicted positives were correct
Recall Score: 95% --> this means that the model was 95% precise in measuring true positive values our of all positive predictions made
## Results

Using bulleted lists, describe the balanced accuracy scores and the precision and recall scores of all machine learning models.

* Machine Learning Model 1:
  * Description of Model 1 Accuracy, Precision, and Recall scores.



* Machine Learning Model 2:
  * Description of Model 2 Accuracy, Precision, and Recall scores.

## Summary

Summarise the results of the machine learning models, and include a recommendation on the model to use, if any. For example:
* Which one seems to perform best? How do you know it performs best?
* Does performance depend on the problem we are trying to solve? (For example, is it more important to predict the `1`'s, or predict the `0`'s? )

If you do not recommend any of the models, please justify your reasoning.

Commit message:

update files in credit folder

README.md, after:

# Credit-risk-classification

# Module 12 Report Template

## Overview of the Analysis

CREDIT RISK ANALYSIS REPORT

Overview

The main goal of this analysis is to train and evaluate a model that assesses loan risk. The dataset used in this project consists of historical lending activity from peer-to -peer lending services company. It includes various variables such as loan size, interest rate, borrower income, debt-to-income ratio, number of accounts, derogatory marks, total debt and loan status.
To determine the creditworthiness of borrowers, a logistic regression model is being employed. This model categorizes borrowers as either high-risk (unhealthy loan/defaulting) or low-risk (healthy loan).
Model I created for this project the loan status was dependent variable (y), with loans being identified as either defaulting (1) or healthy (0). The remaining variable were used as predictors (x). Model had an imbalanced distribution between the outcomes. The model was trained and then evaluated for its performance.
Now let’s talk about the results. 

Results

1.	the balanced accuracy score achieved was 95%. This score takes into account both sensitivity (true positive rate) and specificity (true negative rate). It is great measure of the model’s performance, especially when dealing with imbalanced datasets. Since our dataset has a higher number of rejected loans (75,036) compared to accepted loans (2,500), it is considered imbalanced. In such cases the balanced accuracy score is a reliable metric to evaluate the model’s performance.
2.	Another measure of model’s performance is accuracy. Our model achieved an accuracy score of 99%, meaning it correctly predicted 99% of all loans in the dataset.
3.	Looking at the confusion matrix, the model accurately accepted 18,663 healthy loans and rejected 563 high-risk-loans. However, it also incorrectly rejected 102 healthy loans and incorrectly accepted 56 high-risk-loans.
4.	Precision focusses on how well the predictions match reality while recall (or sensitivity) accesses how well reality matches predictions. For default loans our model achieved a precision score of 85% and a recall score of 91%. For healthy loans, the precision score is 100% and the recall score is 99%
5.	Lastly the F1 score, which is a weighted average of precision and recall, the score is 88% for our model.

Conclusion

Model has a balanced accuracy of 95%. I used balanced accuracy for this model because the distribution data between the healthy and default classes was not balanced.
In the model, I aim to maximize the identification of low-risk loans as healthy and minimize the number of high-risk loans given out. Model accepted 56 high-risk loans. 
When considering F1 score, which takes into account both precision and recall, 88% was true for TO my model.

* Machine Learning Model:
  * Description of Model Accuracy, Precision, and Recall scores.
  
 References.
 https://fastercapital.com/startup-topic/Learning-and-Credit.html
 Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC
